are you one of those drivers who trust
their car mechanic implicitly good for
you if you've found a true professional
who takes good care of your vehicle
unfortunately not all mechanics are
responsible and honest with their
customers there are several things they
don't want you to know so that they can
take advantage of you when you bring
your car in one your car battery should
be replaced have you ever heard from
your mechanic that your car battery has
died while in some cases it's a true
story some car service centers do their
best to talk you into spending your
money but the truth is that the biggest
problem with battery comes not from the
battery itself but from the wires
connected to it the spots where they are
attached to the battery get damaged by
corrosion as a result the battery can
provide your car with as much power as
before some people fix this problem with
the help of coca-cola they pour soda
over the places where the wires are
attached to the battery and the coke
gets rid of the corrosion you can also
save on the cost of a new battery if you
first try to recharge the one you have
it's often enough to make it work
properly again but there is one more
important thing you should know about
car batteries the longer they wait on
the shelf before someone buys them the
more they degrade when you decide to get
a new battery or have a mechanic replace
your old one ask to see its manufacturer
date you should choose the one that's
less than a month all otherwise you'll
have to replace it much earlier than
you're supposed to in a year or even six
months to you need to change the oil as
soon as possible
you've probably heard from some
mechanics that you need to change the
oil in your car every 3,000 miles
however various car experts state that
the earliest you should start to worry
about an oil change is after driving a
minimum of 7,500 miles moreover there is
a professional opinion that if you
change the oil every tenth
and miles you don't cause any harm to
your vehicle rather than changing oil
too often make sure your car doesn't run
out of it again some mechanics may tell
you that dirty oil can damage your car
engine but you should remember that in
modern cars oil eventually burns off and
evaporates
thus the cleanliness of your oil doesn't
matter that much on the other hand the
level of oil does decrease so you should
buy new oil regularly and add it in
three you need to replace your brake
pads right now you'll probably agree
that no one can ignore the terrible
screeching of car brakes most people get
freaked out and rushed to a mechanic to
have their car fix what they don't know
is that the most likely cause of these
terrible sounds is rust on the brake
pads luckily this rust can be easily
removed by brushing scraping or blasting
it off some people do it themselves
after watching a couple of youtube
videos most garages will be happy to do
this procedure for you for a modest sum
of money sadly not all mechanics are
ready to tell you that the problem is as
simple as rust they will inform you that
you need a whole new set of brake pads
be cautious and if you have any doubts
about this diagnosis consult another
mechanic brake pads don't really need to
be changed until they're 90% worn if
your mechanic tells you to replace pads
that are 50% worn don't fall for it
the thing with brakes is that people
prefer to play it safe and some
mechanics use this to make more money
for drop-in for a free inspection some
car service centers attract clients by
promising free bumper to bumper
examinations of their vehicles when you
get such an offer from a garage you may
think well why not it's free that's
where you might be wrong after you bring
your car in a mechanic will most likely
discover that it has tons of problems
which need to be fixed right away if you
fall for this scheme you can waste a
fortune on unnecessary repairs it's
always better to go to a garage only
when there's really something wrong with
your car 5 your car might break down if
you don't use these services some
mechanics insist that your car won't
work properly without certain additional
services for example power steering or
coolant flushes but according to
specialists your car only needs these
procedures every 100,000 miles
also don't fall for the offer of free
lifetime muffler replacement if you
agree to this you'll just end up paying
more money in the long run you'll still
have to pay for pipe repairs which won't
come cheap 6 I'll rotate your tires your
mechanic recommends that you have your
tires rotated and naturally you agree
after all according to him it will
ensure that the tread on the tires wears
out properly first of all when you
collect your car after this procedure
it's almost impossible to say whether
the tires have indeed been rotated
secondly some specialists believe that
tire rotation doesn't have any influence
on the speed at which your tires wear
out in any case you can always check if
your mechanic has rotated the tires
before you drive to the garage mark the
tires with chalk you can write the
letters are out on the rear left tire
and FR on the front right tire after you
get your car back check where the marks
are keep in mind that the mechanic has
to rotate the tires not side to side but
front to back
seven your check engine light is odd you
must have a serious problem most drivers
start to panic when they see that their
check engine light is on especially if
they are new drivers and such a reaction
can lead to a hefty bill from a mechanic
unfortunately few people know that the
most widespread reason for the check
engine light to appear on your dashboard
is because your gas cap isn't fastened
well enough as a result oxygen gets
inside through the gas line the solution
to this problem can be as simple as
giving the gas cap several extra turns
with your hand
imagine you notice a number of warning
lights up on the dashboard your check
engine light your track off light and
your ABS light in some cars this can be
connected to the design of the vehicle
or software issues rather than a real
problem but there are many cars that
automatically turn on several other
lights along with the check engine light
in most cases as soon as you figure out
why your check engine light is on and
fix the problem there won't be anything
else to worry about
eight your car needs special additives
to run better your mechanic may suggest
that you buy additives for the engine
gas tank or transmission after you agree
you find out that these additives cost
you an arm and a leg specialists are
sure that if you take care of your car
regularly you don't need to waste your
money on this stuff according to law
gasoline is already packed with
different additives you don't need any
extra substances to let's say make it
burn better it's the same story with
engine oil producers add different
chemicals to help the oil last longer
they also prevent oil pollution and
vaporization the only thing you can do
to make the process more effective is to
change your car oil regularly
do you know any other secrets that
mechanics don't want to share with their
customers write about them in the
comments section below remember to hit
the like button share this video with
your friends who often visit car service
centers and click Subscribe
this way you'll immediately get to the
bright side of life
[Music]